# FibroblastAtlas2022
Code to reproduce analyses and figures in 2022 Fibroblast Atlas paper. 

## Analyses_human

These notebooks contain code used to perform all analyses of human cell scRNAseq data generated by this study. 

- AllCells: analysis of all cell types from all tissues. 
- IntegratedClusters: analysis of fibroblasts from all tissues. 
- WithinGut: analysis of all cells within gut samples. 
- WithinLung: analysis of all cells within lung samples. 
- WithinSalivaryGland: analysis of all cells within salivary gland samples. 
- WithinSynovium: analysis of all cells within synovial samples. 
- ClusterCorrespondence: comparison of cross-tissue clusters to within-tissue clusters. 
- InVitroStimulation: analysis of fibroblasts cultured with endothelial cells and T-cell derived supernatant. 

## Analyses_mouse

These notebooks contain code used to perform all analyses of mouse cell scRNAseq data. 


- IntegratedAnalysis: analysis of scRNAseq fibroblast mouse datasets across tissue. 
- SynoviumSTA: analysis of all scRNAseq data from serum transfer arthritis model. 
- SynoviumCIA: analysis of all scRNAseq data from collagen induced arthritis model. 
- LungBleomycin: analysis of all scRNAseq data from bleomycin induced lung disease model. 
- GutDSS: analysis of all scRNAseq data from DSS-induced gut disease model. 
- DSS_preprocess: code to process raw FASTQ files for our novel DSS time course RNAseq dataset. 
- DSS_TimeCourseInternal: analysis of time-course DSS datasets generated by this study. 
- DSS_TimeCourseInternal: analysis of time-course DSS datasets from Czarnewski et al. 


## Analyses_imaging

These notebooks contain code used to perform all analyses of high dimensional imaging datasets generated in this study. 

- SegmentationPipeline: code to segment raw high dimensional images into single cells. 
- CellDiveLip1_pre: code to do QC, cell clustering, and niche clustering on salivay gland images. 
- CellDiveLip1_post: code to do cell type and niche labeling on salivary gland images. 
- CellDiveSynovium_pre: code to do QC, cell clustering, and niche clustering on synovium images. 
- CellDiveSynovium_post: code to do cell type and niche labeling on synovium images. 
- CellDiveGut_pre: code to do QC, cell clustering, and niche clustering on gut images. 
- CellDiveGut_post: code to do cell type and niche labeling on gut images. 

## Analyses_external 

These notebooks contain code used to perform all analyses of public datasets. 

- BenchmarkingAlgorithms: comparison of integration algorithms, including single-level-integration benchmark for Harmony. 
- bbknn: integration experiments with bbknn algorithm. 
- scVI: integration experiments with scVI algorithm. 
- scanorama: integration experiments with scanorama algorithm. 
- Overintergration: Harmony tests for overinteration. 
- AHCA_TS: analysis of public, human multi-tissue scRNAseq datasets. 
- Lung_Adams: comparison with Adams et al lung dataset. 
- Lung_Travaglini: comparison with Travaglini et al lung dataset. 
- Gut_Elmentaite: comparison with Elmentaite et al gut dataset. 
- Skin: analysis of scRNAseq data from diseased and healthy skin samples. 
